---
title: "Universality of Real Minimal Complexity Reservoir
"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2025-02-27-rscr
# coauthor: B. Li and P. Tino
excerpt: 'A constructive proof of universality of Simple Cycle Reservoirs (SCR) in the real domain $$\mathbb{R}$$. Additionally we propose a novel method to drastically reduce the number of SCR units. The results are supported by numerical analysis on real-world time series datasets.'
date: 2025-02-27
venue: 'AAAI'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.08071'
citation: 'Robert Simon Fong, Boyu Li, and Peter Tino. Universality of Real Minimal Complexity Reservoir. In 2025 AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), pages 1–9, 2025'
---

Reservoir Computing (RC) models, a subclass of recurrent neural networks, are distinguished by their fixed, non-trainable input layer and dynamically coupled reservoir, with only the static readout layer being trained. This design circumvents the issues associated with backpropagating error signals through time, thereby enhancing both stability and training efficiency. RC models have been successfully applied across a broad range of application domains. Crucially, they have been demonstrated to be universal approximators of time-invariant dynamic filters with fading memory, under various settings of approximation norms and input driving sources.

Simple Cycle Reservoirs (SCR) represent a specialized class of RC models with a highly constrained reservoir architecture, characterized by uniform ring connectivity and binary input-to-reservoir weights with an aperiodic sign pattern. For linear reservoirs, given the reservoir size, the reservoir construction has only one degree of freedom -- the reservoir cycle weight. Such architectures are particularly amenable to hardware implementations without significant performance degradation in many practical tasks. In this study we endow these observations with solid theoretical foundations by proving that SCRs operating in real domain are universal approximators of time-invariant dynamic filters with fading memory. Our results supplement recent research showing that SCRs in the complex domain can approximate, to arbitrary precision, any unrestricted linear reservoir with a non-linear readout. We furthermore introduce a novel method to drastically reduce the number of SCR units, making such highly constrained architectures natural candidates for low-complexity hardware implementations. Our findings are supported by empirical studies on real-world time series datasets. [LINK](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.08071)

Code is open-sourced at [LINK](https://github.com/Lampertos/RSCR)

Joint work with B. Li and P. Tino